add examples for async counter, updown counter, gauge (#2144)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/js/instrumentation.md

* Asynchronous UpDownCounter, an asynchronous instrument which supports
  increments and decrements

> For more on synchronous vs. asynchronous instruments, or what metric is best suited for your use case, see these supplementary [guidelines](/docs/reference/specification/metrics/supplementary-guidelines/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more on synchronous vs. asynchronous instruments, and which kind is best suited for your use case, see [Supplementary Guidelines](/docs/reference/specification/metrics/supplementary-guidelines/).
```

> For more on synchronous vs. asynchronous instruments, or what metric is best suited for your use case, see these supplementary [guidelines](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/metrics/supplementary-guidelines/).

Author: You are correct!

> ### Synchronous and asynchronous instruments

Reviewer: @svrnm @cartermp et al.: I think that the title of this section should use the term "instrumentation" not "instruments". WDYT?

I'm asking here because your answer will impact the text being added/changed here.

Reviewer: @austinlparker ☝️

Reviewer 2: It should remain as "instruments". Confusingly, it has a specific meaning in the context of metrics that's distinct from other signals.

Reviewer: Ah, ... just read the spec and the definition of [instrument](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/metrics/api/#instrument) -- so now I better understand the context. I'm still wondering if it would be better to use the term "instrumentation" in the title here.

Reviewer: Actually, nm, I'm dropping this thread (marking as resolved). Sorry for the noise.

> OpenTelemetry provides two major categories of instruments: synchronous and asynchronous (observable) instruments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An OpenTelemetry instruments are either synchronous or asynchronous (observable).
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane>}}

### Using Observable (aka Async) Counters

Observable counters can be used to measure an additive, non-negative, monotonically increasing value. They are

> useful when increasing the counter is NOT computationally cheap, the increments happen at very high frequencies, or we simply derive no value from knowing the precise timestamp of increments.

Reviewer 3: > They are
useful when increasing the counter is NOT computationally cheap, the increments happen at very high frequencies, or we simply derive no value from knowing the precise timestamp of increments.

if this applies to all async/observable then maybe there should be a top level section calling that out?

In these instances, we would rather observe the aggregate value directly, rather than aggregate a series of deltas in post-processing (the synchronous example). Take note of the use of `observe` rather than `add`.

```js
let events = []

const addEvent = (name) => {
  events = append(events, name)
}

const counter = myMeter.createObservableCounter('events.counter');

counter.addCallback(
  (result) => {
    result.observe(len(events))
  }
)

//... calls to addEvent
```

### Using Observable (aka Async) UpDown Counters

Observable UpDown counters can increment and decrement, allowing you to measure an additive, non-negative, non-monotonically increasing cumulative value.

```js
let events = []

const addEvent = (name) => {
  events = append(events, name)
}

const removeEvent = () => {
  events.pop()
}

const counter = myMeter.createObservableUpDownCounter('events.counter');

counter.addCallback(
  (result) => {
    result.observe(len(events))
  }
)

//... calls to addEvent and removeEvent
```

> ### Using Observable (aka Async) Guages

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Using Observable (aka Async) Gauges
```

> Observable Guages should be used to measure non-additive values. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Observable Gauges should be used to measure non-additive values. 
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane>}}

### Using Observable (aka Async) Counters

Observable counters can be used to measure an additive, non-negative, monotonically increasing value.

```js
let events = []

const addEvent = (name) => {
  events = append(events, name)
}

const counter = myMeter.createObservableCounter('events.counter');

counter.addCallback(
  (result) => {
    result.observe(len(events))
  }
)

//... calls to addEvent
```

> ### Using Observable (aka Async) UpDown Counters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using Observable (Async) UpDown Counters
```

Observable UpDown counters can increment and decrement, allowing you to measure an additive, non-negative, non-monotonically increasing cumulative value.

```js
let events = []

const addEvent = (name) => {
  events = append(events, name)
}

const removeEvent = () => {
  events.pop()
}

const counter = myMeter.createObservableUpDownCounter('events.counter');

counter.addCallback(
  (result) => {
    result.observe(len(events))
  }
)

//... calls to addEvent and removeEvent
```

> ### Using Observable (aka Async) Gauges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using Observable (Async) Gauges
```

cntr.add(1, { 'some.optional.attribute': 'some value' });
```

### Configure Metric Views

A Metric View provides developers with the ability to customize metrics exposed by the Metrics SDK. 

> To instantiate a view, one must first select a target instrument. The following are valid selectors for metrics: `instrumentType`, `instrumentName`, `meterName`, `meterVersion`, and `meterSchemaUrl`. Selecting by instrument name has support for wildcards, so you can select all instruments using `*` or select all instruments starting with `http` by using `http*`.

Reviewer 2: I think it's a good idea to break out each of these selectors into bullet points.

I'd then call out that the name is a string that supports wildcards (rather than just implying that by saying there's wildcards).

Author: Updating

> Once you've selected a target instrument, here are some examples of configurations possible with views:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of configurations possible with views:
```

> - Filter attributes reported on metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Filter attributes on all metric types:

```

```js
new View({
  // only export the attribute 'environment'
  attributeKeys: ['environment'],
  // apply the view to all instruments
  instrumentName: '*',
})
```

> - Select instruments to be processed or ignored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Drop all instruments with the meter name `pubsub`:

```

```js
const dropView = new View({
  aggregation: new DropAggregation(),
  meterName: 'pubsub',
});
```

> - Define explicit bucket sizes for Histogram metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Define explicit bucket sizes for the Histogram named `http.server.duration`:

```

```js
const histogramView = new View({
  aggregation: new ExplicitBucketHistogramAggregation([0, 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30]),
  instrumentName: 'http.server.duration',
  instrumentType: InstrumentType.HISTOGRAM,
});
```

> Lastly, once a view has been configured, simply attach it to the corresponding meter provider:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a view has been configured, attach it to the corresponding meter provider:
```

#### Selectors

To instantiate a view, one must first select a target instrument. The following are valid selectors for metrics:
- `instrumentType`
- `instrumentName`
- `meterName`
- `meterVersion`
- `meterSchemaUrl`

Selecting by `instrumentName` (of type string) has support for wildcards, so you can select all instruments using `*` or select all instruments whose name starts with `http` by using `http*`.

#### Examples

Filter attributes on all metric types:

```js
new View({
  // only export the attribute 'environment'
  attributeKeys: ['environment'],
  // apply the view to all instruments
  instrumentName: '*',
})
```

Drop all instruments with the meter name `pubsub`:

```js
const dropView = new View({
  aggregation: new DropAggregation(),
  meterName: 'pubsub',
});
```

Define explicit bucket sizes for the Histogram named `http.server.duration`:

```js
const histogramView = new View({
  aggregation: new ExplicitBucketHistogramAggregation([0, 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30]),
  instrumentName: 'http.server.duration',
  instrumentType: InstrumentType.HISTOGRAM,
});
```

#### Attach to meter provider

> Once a view has been configured, attach it to the corresponding meter provider:
> ```js
> const meterProvider = new MeterProvider({
>   views: [
>     histogramView
>   ]
> });

Reviewer 4: Optional: I think in most cases, users will have multiple views. We may be able to tie it together with the previous section and show all of the views applied to the `MeterProvider` like so  :slightly_smiling_face::

```suggestion
Once views have been configured, attach them to the corresponding meter provider:
```js
const meterProvider = new MeterProvider({
  views: [
    limitAttributesView,
    dropView,
    histogramView
  ]
});
```
